
a bit about me and my experience with windows:

built my first pc at age 8, was running 3 in my room by age 10. taught myself html in middle school and i was playing with vms by age 14. I started on 98, then moved to 2000, then xp, dabbled with 95 a bit when a machine fell into my lap, my dad an i were part of the insiders program and we got alpha and beta copies of vista. we never ended up running it as a daily, we knew vista was trash from the start. 7 is probably still my favorite windows os ever, it was clean and simple and it just worked. 7 holds a lot of nostalgia for me as well, i built my first gaming rig on 7 and started a brief youtube career teaching people how to install old games in compatibility mode. I believe i started my development career on 7 as well, working on an asp.net c# web application for my university. With a microsoft sql server back end and deployed on a microsoft iis server written in microsoft visual studio. to be honest i enjoyed the developer experience, i didn't have to manage deploying the app and the complete microsoft stack worked pretty well. Then came 8 which, i did run, but i didn't see much point in it. there were one or two things i would use the dashboard screen for but i can't remember what they were, it was an interesting experiment in an age where we thought tablets would be the next pc. at least it worked. 10 was an improvement over 8 but i've always had a bit of a strained relationship with 10. 10 brought ui improvements over 8 but 10, to me, was the first microsoft os that i really didn't feel in control over. the computer is going to do what it wants whether you allow it or not, sometimes it's like i'm using the pc around it's schedule rather than mine. I began to notice a trend where certain things on my pc would stop working for no reason and they would only be solved by rebooting, which would also trigger updates. eventually i figured out that microsoft was installing updates in the background without my permission and this was bricking certain applications until reboot. these applications were necessary for me to use the computer though, so they're essentially holding my pc hostage until i agree to install their updates. that i didn't ask for. and i certainly didn't authorize to install while i'm in the middle of something. for probably a year or two i completely disabled windows updates because they were giving me so much grief. My rig at the time was an i7 6700k with a pair of r9 390s in crossfire, it has a 256gb nvme boot drive that was a samsung 950 pro, at the time i remember paying almost a dollar per gb for that nvme, but it was absolutely worth it. I had a roommate i used to game with and he had quite the healthy rig at the time as well, though he had 4 2tb hard drives and no ssds. There was one day where we woke up and his computer was just bricked, we spent some time investigating and it turns out, microsoft had issued an update that his computer tried to install, but it installed the update to the wrong hard drive after deleting system critical files from his actual boot drive. so we re-installed windows and a few months later it happened again. re-install and a few months later it happens again. 4 or 5 times this man's computer bricks itself, all from microsoft official updates. eventually we figured out you need to remove all drives except for the boot drive when installing 10, otherwise it installs the os across multiple drives and windows update isn't always smart enough to figure out where things should go. this problem still exists to this day, a friend of mine formatted his secondary hard drive that supposedly only had games installed on it, and it bricked his pc. It doesn't matter where you tell the os to install, it will install where it wants to anyways, the only way to guarantee it installs to a single drive is to remove all other drives during installation of 10 or 11. But anyways, moving on to 11. if i have to. i guess. i'm running 11 on my work machine and my personal laptop, my rig stays on 10. I must say i'm not impressed with 11 at all. I liked the layout of 10 so i moved the start button over to the left where i like it, but it's still all wrong. for my entire life, i have been able to flick my mouse into the bottom left corner of the screen and click and the start menu opens. in windows 11, this is not so. sometimes it works, but often it does not. some of you may say but dan, just use the windows button on your keyboard, my keyboard doesn't have a windows button, my caps-lock is a function layer and my windows key is caps lock. I'm ready to pack up and leave over this already, but then i wanted to extract an archive with 7zip, so i right click on the file and about 10 worthless options show up, along with "More Options" or something like that, i can't remember because i fixed it immediately but what in god's name is that? i have to click another button to see my old menu? The old menu has all of the options of the new menu and more, what's the point of the new menu? i can't begin to express how much i hate it, you added a completely worthless but necessary operation to almost every operation on a "workstation" operating system. you better believe that's the second thing i googled, right after "download chrome" on my 11 machines, "windows 11 context menu registry fix" thank god somebody figured out how to disable it. I also really don't care for the search bar and how it seems to default to web search. with all the resources i see windows search indexer sucking down my nvme based machines have no business searching bing for "cmd" when i hit enter in the search bar too quickly. and to this day windows explorer is still single threaded, guys why does every explorer window on my machine lock up when i accidentally click on a network mount that doesn't exist? Surely just the one window could lock up or better yet, it could realize the "drive" isn't mounted and just leave well enough alone! if i had a nickel for every time i've manually killed explorer.exe and restarted it because i accidentally clicked on a drive that wasn't present, or dragged a file OVER a mount that isn't present, well i'd probably have like 12 bucks but still man can we not fix this? and to this day windows can't tell me which process is using a drive that's plugged in. "it's a program running on your pc", no i killed all the programs, there's nothing left, what is using the drive??? just tell me already. for these reasons and many more, i no longer treat windows as a workstation os, i treat it as a user terminal that allows me to remote into workstations. and play video games. I've completely ignored the introduction of wsl, i was a fairly early adopter but was a bit unimpressed with the early capabilities. bit of a theme here, but anyways. I think my main qualms with it were a few incompatible libraries i ran into, and difficulty with mounting external or network drives into wsl. I ended up using virtualbox to run a ubuntu server vm, and then i would run vs code on the laptop and remote into the vm to develop and i really liked this workflow. it may sound a bit cumbersome but the vm can pause and resume when the laptop goes to sleep and wakes up and ubuntu server doesn't use much by itself so i largely didn't notice it running in the background and i'd just remote in whenever i wanted to use it. at work i'm able to use a remote machine to some capacity as well so i don't even have an ide installed in windows. I started playing around with wsl again recently and now i use it primarily on my laptop over the virtualbox vm, they've really improved on a lot of things and made it a nice integration into the windows os. the drvfs mount option makes mounts really simple and i do find it a bit hilarious that ms is advertising this feature so heavily, "you can do work on windows now, we added in linux!". or i could just run linux natively and see an instant 20% bump in application performance because it isn't dealing with microsoft's bloat. but at last we must come to a conclusion, i've done an awful lot of bitching here but what's my point? Why scream into the void so passionately about an operating system of all things? The point is, I miss the days when the os was elegant and efficient. Where it felt like a tool to be used rather than a roommate with an annoying schedule to work around. where functionality and polish were really valued, day 1 patches may be a thing now but you should still pretend they aren't. And really, i miss being in control of the machine. it's my pc, it should do what i want, when i want and that's it. I would like to have a utilitarian os, if you have to have one with all the bs baked in, fine, but please release a clean build for someone who wants to use it. i don't need settings, i don't need bing in the search bar, i don't need your goofy path association nonsense, i don't need onedrive or edge or office365 installed by default (actually maybe edge so i can install chrome but eff off with your incessant begging to be my default browser, it's not happening and at this point it's pathetic.), i don't need your telemetry, I don't need outlook, i don't need news in my start menu, i don't need weather widgets, i don't need the half-baked context menu, i don't need copilot at an os level, i don't need cell phone or social media integration, i DO need the start button to always work when my mouse is in the bottom left corner of the screen, i DO need the start menu to always open when i click the button, not when it feels like it. i DO need explorer to be multithreaded or at least fixed so a misclick on an old mount doesn't wipe out your whole pc. i DO need word to open when i click the icon, not 58 seconds later (how has office gotten slower with every release? What in gods name are yall doing? the feature set hasn't changed in 20 years and it just keeps getting slower. actually yall removed featured, where's my speech to text engine from office 2000? that's right, i remember), i DO need a force unmount option when idgaf what's using the drive, it's coming out, 


Reasons why I will no longer tolerate Microsoft's bullshit operating system:

A compilation of bugs and errors experienced across a wide array of machines, all running windows 11. 


1. Upgraded my personal laptop to win11 from win10, after upgrading to 11 my permanent copy of office 2016 was overwritten with office 365 and my license was deleted. when i removed office 365 from my computer, it took office 2016 with it. I had to re-install office after deleting office 365 to get it working again, also turns out there is no more microsoft support. if you can't solve your problem with an ai voice assistant over the phone, you're screwed. 

2. Microsoft will slowly break your pc when they want you to install an update, certain functions will just break until you restart, at which point, the updates are installed with or without my permission. 

3. TPM, need I say more? You required everyone to buy a "security" module that serves no purpose for 99% of users. idc if windows hello uses it, it isn't necessary

4. Issues with intel sleep states of laptop processors, about 10% of the time when i wake my work computer from sleep i get stuck at a picture screen with no log-in option for up to 15 MINUTES. it's usually faster to manually shut down the laptop and restart it, though this introduces the possibility of data corruption. all because i want my computer to, you know, work when i turn it on.

5. Explorer.exe bugs. Too numerous to count, why on earth in 2025 is windows explorer still SINGLE THRADED. WHY DOES MY WHOLE COMPUTER LOCK UP WHEN I ACCIDENTALLY CLICK ON A NETWORK DRIVE THAT ISN'T PRESENT. WHY DOES EXPLORER.EXE CRASH EVERY TIME I ACCIDENTALLY DRAG A FILE OVER A NETWORK MOUNT THAT ISN'T CONNECTED. WHY DOESN'T PUTTING MY MOUSE IN THE BOTTOM RIGHT CORNER OF THE SCREEN CONSISTENTLY OPEN THE START MENU. WHY DOESN'T ALT TAB WORK CONSISTENTLY ANYMORE. 

6. You dipshits became so obsessed with making your os look and feel like mac os to try and steal their little 12% marketshare that you completely screwed over the actual user base of your os. those of us who want to get work done. The last workhorse windows os was 7, you let someone who burnt out in the 60's take over to design 8, skipped 9 to prevent backwards compatibility issues because people are still running 95 and 98 apparently, and 10 finally felt like we were getting back to what windows should be. 10 had its issues, the settings app for example, but in general it just worked. it's why i'm still running it on my main pc today and will never upgrade to 11

7. The settings app. That worthless piece of trash, just get rid of it already. it was half baked from the start and never got to its destination. *Update* I checked and it does appear to be mostly functional at this point, i haven't used it in years because it was missing so many things. I still don't remember anybody asking for that, the control panel was an established windows standard that everybody knew how to navigate, and you wasted developer time on settings rather than fixing the 70% of other win11 features that are currently broken. 

8. *Windows 10 Special* I returned home from work and went to boot up the rig only to notice it was already on. this isn't unusual, my pc is set to never sleep unless i tell it to so when it installs updates it stays on until i turn it off again. I logged in and i went to open a document and it just wasn't there, my documents pictures, videos, and music were all gone and there was just a folder in the directory that i could see was a re-direct. i thought i had been hit by ransomware. turns out, microsoft released an update that moved all of my files into onedrive without my permission. I went to the microsoft forums to complain and they claimed it would only do that if i had manually enabled the option for it in onedrive. I checked the onedrive settings and while i saw the option to enable onedrive as primary for all of those directories, it was set to disabled in my settings. but they did it anyways. so i enabled it then disabled it again and moved everything back but this is an egregious breach of trust. they stole my files and my data and uploaded it to their cloud without my permission. and then they had the gall to spam my inbox and desktop with notifications stating i needed to purchase more onedrive space. there are about 8 files i keep in onedrive intentionally and they are all measured in kilobytes. anything else that makes its way up there has been against my knowledge or consent, yet i constantly get notifications that i'm out of space and need to buy more, then i check onedrive and it says i'm at 1.3/5gb used, then i get another email saying i need to buy more space, and i'm still at 1.3 gb out of 5, i'm no mathematician but i should be in the clear no? 